                      Rtools Collection 3.5.0.0

This is the Rtools.txt file, which will be installed in the main
Rtools directory. See also the README.txt file there, which describes
the origin of some of the tools. The tools installed in the
Rtools\mingw_32, and Rtools\mingw_64 directories 
are from the MinGW-w64 distribution.  
 

                                MSYS2
			  
This version upgrades the old cygwin utilities to msys2. 

                           REMAINING TASKS

This installer doesn't install all of the tools necessary to build R
or R packages, because of license or size limitations.  The remaining
tools are all available online (at no charge) as described below.

TO BUILD R PACKAGES, you may optionally want item 1 below
(LaTeX).

TO BUILD R, you do need item 1, and item 2 (Inno Setup) is optional if you
would like to build the installer.

As of R 3.2.0, the manuals are optional.  To build them you will need
item 3 below. 

The Rtools installer will optionally edit your PATH variable as follows:

PATH=c:\Rtools\bin;<others>

(where you will substitute appropriate directories for the ones listed
above, but please keep the path in the same order as shown. LaTeX and
R itself should be installed among the "others".)

                           REMAINING ITEMS

1. You may install LaTeX, available from

  http://www.miktex.org
  
LaTeX is used to build .pdf forms of documentation.
  
2. You need the Inno Setup installer, available from

  http://www.innosetup.com
  
to build the R installer.

3. You will need Perl, e.g. from

  http://strawberryperl.com/
  
to build the manuals.

                               VERSIONS
			
This installer includes separate 32- and 64-bit builds of gcc 4.9.3 and 
mingw-w64 v3 compiled by Jeroen Ooms and others.  For use with the latter
it also includes a copy of libicu55.

The Cygwin tools and DLLs were updated on April 4, 2018.  They are 
32 bit versions taken from msys2.

Tcl/Tk is version 8.5.8.
    
    

                    EXISTING CYGWIN INSTALLATIONS
		
We no longer use cygwin.
